feat(sql server): Add Microsoft SQL Server example (#2154)
prisma/prisma-examples: databases/sql-server/README.md

- `src/script.js`: Node.js script with queries similar to the ones in the test.

## How to use

### 1. Download example & install dependencies

Clone this repository:

```
git clone git@github.com:prisma/prisma-examples.git --depth=1
```

Install npm dependencies:

```
cd prisma-examples/databases/sql-server
npm install
```

### 2. Start SQL Server with Docker Compose

Run the following command from the `sql-server` folder to start SQL Server:

```
docker-compose up -d
```

> **Note:** The `docker-compose.yml` is where the super admin password is set with the `SA_PASSWORD` environment variable

### 3. Create the database in SQL Server with `schema.sql`

The `schema.sql` file contains the SQL queries to create the database schema (which includes the database and tables).

Run `schema.sql` with the following [SQL Server `sqlcmd` CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/tools/sqlcmd-utility?view=sql-server-ver15) command:

```
sqlcmd -S 127.0.0.1 -U SA -P prisma123 -i schema.sql
```

Alternatively, you can use one of the following tools to create the database schema:

- [Azure Data Studio](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/azure-data-studio/what-is?view=sql-server-ver15)

> - [TablePlus](https://tableplus.com/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [TablePlus](https://tableplus.com/)
- [DBeaver](https://dbeaver.io)
```

### 4. Configure the database connection URL

> Prisma will use the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable in `prisma/.env` to connect to the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prisma will use the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable in `.env` to connect to the database.
```

Create the file:

```

> touch prisma/.env

Reviewer: ```suggestion
touch .env
```

```

Then add the following line:

```

> DATABASE_URL=sqlserver://localhost:1433;database=prisma;user=SA;password=prisma123;trustServerCertificate=true;encrypt=DANGER_PLAINTEXT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DATABASE_URL=sqlserver://localhost:1433;database=prisma;user=SA;password=prisma123;trustServerCertificate=true;encrypt=true
```

```

> > **Note:** The database URL uses the `SA` (super admin) user of the database and the same password as defined in `docker-compose.yml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The database URL uses the `SA` (super admin) user of the database and the same password as defined in `docker-compose.yml`.
> If you are running on macOS, you may need to use `encrypt=DANGER_PLAINTEXT` to work around the current TLS limitation.
```

Update the schema with the following changes which rename the relation fields:

```prisma
model Comment {
  id        Int      @id @default(autoincrement())
  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  comment   String
  authorId  Int
  postId    Int
  author    User     @relation(fields: [authorId], references: [id])
  post      Post     @relation(fields: [postId], references: [id])
}

model Post {
  id        Int       @id @default(autoincrement())
  createdAt DateTime  @default(now())
  title     String
  content   String?
  published Boolean   @default(false)
  authorId  Int
  author    User      @relation(fields: [authorId], references: [id])
  comments  Comment[]
  tags      Tag[]     @relation("TagToPost")
}

model Tag {
  id    Int    @id @default(autoincrement())
  tag   String @unique
  posts Post[] @relation("TagToPost")
}

model User {
  id        Int       @id @default(autoincrement())
  createdAt DateTime  @default(now())
  email     String    @unique
  name      String?
  comments  Comment[]
  posts     Post[]
}
```

> > **Note:** You can find the introspected schema with the relation fields renameed in `prisma/schema-introspected-renamed.prisma`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** You can find the introspected schema with the relation fields renamed in `prisma/schema-introspected-renamed.prisma`.
```

### 3. Create the database in SQL Server with `schema.sql`

The `schema.sql` file contains the SQL queries to create the database schema (which includes the database and tables).

Run `schema.sql` with the following [SQL Server `sqlcmd` CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/tools/sqlcmd-utility?view=sql-server-ver15) command:

```
sqlcmd -S 127.0.0.1 -U SA -P prisma123 -i schema.sql
```

Alternatively, you can use one of the following tools to create the database schema:

- [Azure Data Studio](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/azure-data-studio/what-is?view=sql-server-ver15)
- [TablePlus](https://tableplus.com/)
- [DBeaver](https://dbeaver.io)

### 4. Configure the database connection URL

Prisma will use the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable in `.env` to connect to the database.
Create the file:

```
touch .env
```

Then add the following line:

```
DATABASE_URL=sqlserver://localhost:1433;database=prisma;user=SA;password=prisma123;trustServerCertificate=true;encrypt=true
```

> **Note:** The database URL uses the `SA` (super admin) user of the database and the same password as defined in `docker-compose.yml`.

> > If you are running on macOS, you may need to use `encrypt=DANGER_PLAINTEXT` to work around the current TLS limitation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> If you are running on macOS, you must use `encrypt=DANGER_PLAINTEXT` to work around the current TLS limitation: `DATABASE_URL=sqlserver://localhost:1433;database=prisma;user=SA;password=prisma123;trustServerCertificate=true;encrypt=true;encrypt=DANGER_PLAINTEXT`
```

Is this always required on macOS? If so, we should probably strike the "may".

### 5. Introspect your database

The Prisma schema is the foundation for the generated Prisma Client API. Therefore, you first need to make sure that all the database tables are represented in it. The easiest way to do so is by introspecting your database:

```
npx prisma introspect
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

If the command times out, append `encrypt=DANGER_PLAINTEXT` to your connection URL in `.env` so that it looks as follows: `DATABASE_URL=sqlserver://localhost:1433;database=prisma;user=SA;password=prisma123;trustServerCertificate=true;encrypt=true;encrypt=DANGER_PLAINTEXT`

```

I ran into the timeout and didn't make the connection to the previous note. I think it would be helpful to be more explicit about this issue here again so that people know what to do.

  createdAt DateTime  @default(now())
  title     String
  content   String?
  published Boolean   @default(false)
  authorId  Int
  User      User      @relation(fields: [authorId], references: [id])
  Comment   Comment[]
  Tag       Tag[]     @relation("TagToPost")
}

model Tag {
  id   Int    @id @default(autoincrement())
  tag  String @unique
  Post Post[] @relation("TagToPost")
}

model User {
  id        Int       @id @default(autoincrement())
  createdAt DateTime  @default(now())
  email     String    @unique
  name      String?
  Comment   Comment[]
  Post      Post[]
}
```

### 6. Rename the relation fields for easy access

Because both the generated `Post` and `Comment` fields in the `User` model are virtual (i.e. they're not backed by a foreign key in the database), you can manually rename them in your Prisma schema. This will only affect the generated client and is typically done so that they have a more meaningful name in the context of the relation.

Update the schema with the following changes which rename the relation fields:

```prisma
model Comment {
  id        Int      @id @default(autoincrement())
  createdAt DateTime @default(now())
  comment   String

>   authorId  Int

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  writtenById  Int
```

  postId    Int

>   author    User     @relation(fields: [authorId], references: [id])

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  writtenBy    User     @relation(fields: [authorId], references: [id])
```

I suggest to change this from `author` to `writtenBy` to avoid duplicate field names (since `Post` already has a field called `author`).
